	During the 1960’s the United States government recognized many social issues in America consisting of youth delinquency, poverty in America, and crime. Starting the movement, President Kennedy announced in May of 1961 a total Attack on Delinquency and started signing legislation to create anti-delinquency programs in the inner cities. Police officers were then increased in these inner cities and in some states, police officers were placed in schools to control the number of “troublemakers”. To preface, the baby boomers born after 1947 where transitioning from children to adolescence and Kennedy had to deal with the increase of delinquency caused by this. In 1957, subcommittees had met in order to address the problem and it seemed imminent that the the problem would be addressed on a national scale. At the time, Kennedy’s administration was handling the situation with minimal and inaccurate statistics on juvenile crime and demographics regarding them, but there was an underlying presumption that class and race had a major role in juvenile delinquency. We can see the transition from Kennedy’s Total Attack on Delinquency to the War on Crime over his and Johnson’s presidencies, and the effect of Moynihan’s report on programs and policies over these periods.
	Lyndon Johnson being Kennedy’s successor was placed in a tough spot when he was given the office, America was still in the thick of the Attack on Delinquency. Under his administration the programs were expanded, and the title recast to the War on Poverty. Following his announcement of the War on Poverty in his state of the union address in 1964, Johnson passed the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 which led to the creation of many programs that sought to help eliminate poverty in America. Some of these programs consisted of the Community Action Program, Job Corps, and the Volunteer in Service to America (VISTA). It also took the methods created by the Mobilization of Youth and other projects that aimed to decrease juvenile delinquency from Kennedy’s administration to the national level. Many of these programs did not explicitly target African Americans, but there was a strong implication for it. For example, fifteen percent of the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO) budget went towards demonstration projects that gave special attention to black communities. Kennedy even says, that there was “no question” that “the Negroes, their lack of opportunity, their need for special attention in our society” was one of the most vexing social issues of the 1960’s. This directly led to the War on Crime. After the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, there were many protest revealing the tension between law enforcement and residents of segregated urban neighborhoods. Johnson was determined to defuse the situation claiming that his administration would put a swift end to the disorder occurring in larger cities such as New York and Detroit. With Johnsons drive to handle all the crime that was taking place he signed the Law Enforcement Assistance Act of 1965 which created the Office of Law Enforcement Assistance. The main purpose of this office was to create new training program and experimental surveillance techniques for police officers in low income urban communities. This is important because what this did was put more officers into these high tension areas that caused even more hardships for both parties involved. It was around this time that Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote his report The Negro Family: The Case For National Action, which was on the topic of poverty and crime in America. Johnsons administration received this report and reshaped how some programs ran.
	Moynihan breaks down his theory from his case for national action into 5 parts. Part one, the Negro American Revolution. With Brown vs. the Board of Education fresh on everyones mind, negro organizations began to grow. The organizations were known as “better discipled and better led then any in our history”, Moynihan says in his report. Often too these organizations had close ties with political parties and most segments of the Trade Union Movement. With the demand for equality from these negro organizations, Kennedy and Johnson made it a focal point during their tenure as president to achieve negro equality. There is a lot of talk about equality and liberty. Is one synonymous with the other? Moynihan makes it seem as if liberty is a standard for everyone, and equality is something that is tolerated rather than given. The demand for equality consist of equality of opportunity, achievement, and results. Moynihan feels as if equality of opportunity has a different meaning when it is applied to Negro Americans rather than white Americans. Whites enjoy a higher quality of equal opportunity, where Negro Americans although more or less equal in opportunity, their opportunities offered are not equal to the quality of opportunities that are accustomed to whites. As for equality of achievement, through the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, equality of achievement was partially granted by desegregating public accommodations. Lastly equality of results, which Moynihan sees as extremely necessary. He says, “The principle challenge of the next phase of the negro revolution is to make certain that equality of results will now follow.” Moynihan believes if this is not achieved in their revolution, that there will be no social peace in America. In order to truly understand the level of equality amongst the negro communities, we need to take assessments, but understand that these assessments are vulnerable to gross amounts of error. This error is due to the lack of methodology in the data collection field when it comes to social health or social pathology within an ethnic, religious, or geographical community.
	Two, the Negro American family. This is one of Moynihan’s main points in his study. It has been assumed that the nature of family life was about the same throughout American society, causing family structure to not be a factor in economic success among individuals. Family life in America has always been fundamental to the growing process of a healthy positive contributing citizen. We as people learn from our families as children and we essentially learn how to become adults through this process. Being that family life is such an important factor, Moynihan’s report goes in depth about the low class negro family structure and finds it to be “unstable”. He concluded this for a number of reasons, one being that the divorce/separation rate among negro women was 26%. On top of that 30.2% of these women had absent husbands, not including the amount of divorces and separations. There has been an increase in illegal pregnancies, and all these statistics are amplified when looking at urban areas, meaning that number of illegal pregnancies, divorce rate, separation rate, and number of absent husbands are all increased. Drawing conclusions from this data, Moynihan feels as if it is safe to say the Negro American family is considerably less stable to the average white family in America.
	Three, the roots of the problem. Slavery is a huge contribution to the War on Crime. After experiencing some of the worst treatment as slaves in America, ravaging their culture and objectifying negro’s beyond belief, they were then given the opportunity to start families and live amongst the whites who tormented them. They were given liberty, not equality. This caused massive amounts of segregation, effecting the most male negro’s, causing women to become the leaders of the negro families. Segregation was very apparent in urban cities, which were formed rapidly. Due to the rapid change to urbanization, being that it occurred in one or two generations, it created negro slums which led to massive amounts of youth delinquency, family disorganization, and crime. Another root to the larger problem at hand was the amount of people unemployed and the level and severity of poverty in the negro communities. Through this study it is proven that the better quality of job a person has, the better quality of family life they will have. In 1963, 29.2% of negro’s were unemployed at some point during the year. When it comes to wages, the minimum was $1.25, which may have been enough to support an individual, but when you need to support a family of two or more its well below the poverty line. Negro women also work more then white with 56% negro women in the work force, and 42% white women which also led to more women leading the house hold.
	This leads us into the fourth part of Moynihan’s report, the tangle of pathology. “That the Negro American survived at all is extraordinary-a lesser people might simply have died out, as indeed other have”, says Moynihan. In this section of the report, Moynihan makes his main argument for national action. He talks about how the negro family is matriarchal due to males being suppressed. Moynihan believes American society in general rewards male leaders which makes it more difficult for Negro America being that it is set up as matriarch. Interestingly though, he points out that middle class negro families are set up in a more patriarchal way. As he said before, society in America rewards those families with a strong male leader which correlates to the fact that middle class negro families are set up as a patriarch. An astounding 44% of negro families have female heads of the family opposed to the 20% of white families. Moynihan says that white children who thrive under their fathers leadership often do as well as if not better then the previous generation, where as negro families fail at this. Often even a successful family will fall back into poverty after a generation of success.
	Armed forces is an area in which is very troublesome. The armed forces, in Moynihan’s opinion, is one of the most valuable life experiences a person can have. Moynihan believes that the armed forces is the only true place negro’s are treaded as equals, as men. Filled with strong male role models, Moynihan see’s this opportunity as the perfect way to assimilate Negro Americans with the rest of America. Essentially he thinks that negro men need to get away from matriarchal societies and be around strong willed men. The problem is that 56% of the Negro Americans fail the qualify to join the armed forces. The tests that are given are more educational based rather than a mental test. The test is supposed to be set up so an eighth grader is able to pass it. If there was to be a proportionate amount of negro’s in the armed forces as there are in population, there would be an additional 100,000 employed negro’s. This Moynihan points out is a sign that there is a problem that needs to be addressed, and is another reason he brings to use for national action.
	Five, a case for national action. Unfortunately, Moynihan sees this as the hard reality of life. He says that there is a significant amount of people who do not believe this is a real issue, or that these problems even exist at all. He sees how the mistreatment of the Negro American’s for three centuries has distorted the Negro American society. Moynihan claims there is no possible way to help aid unless we change the fundamentals of Negro American societal structure. The problem is extremely serious and is on track to become worse if not handled correctly, and being that our president has committed the nation to an all out effort to eliminate poverty it is our responsibility to take action on a national level.
	In Hintons From the War on Poverty to the War on Crime: The Making of Mass Incarceration in America, we can see the effects of Moynihan’s report on policy and direction policy was headed due to the paper. The case for national action was published and distributed to his colleagues in the Department of Labor. This memo was picked up and Moynihan’s views on how pathology as the root cause for poverty, and in turn crime, was widely accepted by the Johnson administration. At the same time liberals took this opportunity to do more social science research into the black family structure using resources from the nation crime prevention program. Studies done showed that more often then not if a child was delinquent, then at least one of the parents of the child was also delinquent. Johnson thought that the solution for reducing long term crime rates was to increase social welfare programs, and to handle the immediate issue at hand was to increase surveillance and policing programs. Although Johnson failed to lower the gap between economic equality, he did end up creating a massive amount of jobs for police and correctional officers over his tenure by launching the War on Crime. To draw back to Moynihan’s study, I believe that the study was conducted and presented in a reasonable fashion, but where the real issue lies is in the decision making with the information. Johnson administration saw what Moynihan had to say and chose to launch the War on Crime, which personally I feel was the wrong direction. In my opinion, I do believe that Moynihan’s cultural lens is useful for understanding poverty. Moynihan explains the importance of family structure and shows how deviations from the social norm such as a family structured as a matriarch rather than a patriarch can be a huge factor when it comes to youth delinquency. It may not be right that this was so in the 1960’s but statistically you have a better chance of being successful under growing up in a family where the dynamic is set up as a patriarch. Moynihan goes on to show how this leads to unemployment, poverty, delinquency, and crime in America. 
	Moynihan uses the term Negro America and statistics about the collective to describe it. That by definition creates a culture. Measuring the collective group and drawing generalizations about that collective is a study of culture. By saying that most of the crimes committed by Negro Americans is towards another Negro American is saying that there is a problem with Negro American culture. We can see the formation of the culture, and it can be tracked over the past three centuries. Due to mistreatment and severe racism, the Negro American culture has fostered troubled youths, crime, and a perpetual cycle of poverty. Although this study describes a culture I don’t think that Moynihan’s theory is inherently racialized. His theory is that the past mistreatment of an entire cultural group, along with the family structure of the cultural group can cause social revolution. His methodology for obtaining his information can be alter such that it can apply to any cultural group. What I mean by cultural group is any group of people associated by race, religion, social or economic class, or ideology. Moynihan starts off by gathering statistics on the collective, statistics that define the collective in which he can use to make an argument that there is a cultural issue that can be remedied by government intervention. He gathered statistics such as divorce rates, population in urban environments, unemployment rates, and on family structure. Using these statistics, you can make an argument against any culture. He then talks about the roots of the problem, and those roots are slavery which is the only direct relation to race, urbanization, unemployment, and the wage system. He then supports his theory with the tangle of pathology. At this point of his method, he address the issues that he has concluded after considering all of the statistical information he has gathered, and applies it to his scope. Therefore I do not think that his theory is inherently racialized. I believe that you can apply this theory and method to any cultural collective to determine if there can be a case made for government action at the federal level. I will say that although this is purely statistical, it offers no solutions to the problems brought to light because it is not meant to remedy the issues, its purpose was to bring attention to the problems.

